PROJ-210 - Brian usability rettelser (#123)
SW805F20/report: sections/sprint-5/usability-test-may-18th.tex

> \section{Second test on May 18th}

Reviewer: er det så meget en test som en evaluering af om det virker?

The second test of the system and all of its components took place on the 18th of May.
This test was conducted as the previous test had not managed to explore the functionality of the game as described in \autoref{sec:initial-test}.

> Since then we fixed the discovered bugs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the time between the two tests, the majority of the discovered bugs were fixed.
```

Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the test was conducted using the group members as testers, and only one person from outside the group.

\subsection{The setup}
The test was carried out in two phases, one inside and one outside.

> The playing field was shaped like a rectangle for both tests, much like the previous test on the 7th of May.

Reviewer: ref?

> It would have been preferable to get external users to conduct the system, but this was obvious not a viable solution due to the circumstances.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It would have been preferable to get external users to participate in the test, but this was obviously not a viable solution due to the circumstances.
```

An example of the setup can be seen on \autoref{fig:test2-indoor-setup}.

\subsection{Method and structure}

> The test was unstructured and could be considered as a big bang test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The test was largely unstructured, and was to an extend conducted as a big bang test.
```

> Ideally we would have liked to conduct a usability test, but as the group already have expert knowledge on how to operate the program, it is not possible to test the setup and the usability of the game.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ideally, this test would have been conducted as a usability test, but as the group already have expert knowledge on how to operate the program, it is not possible to test the setup and the usability of the game.
```

Føler lidt at her mangler noget om at grunden til at vi ikke kan gøre det er på grund af corona, så vi ikke bare kunne hive random folk ind for at teste det

Author: På linje 5 står der, at vi pga corona kun er os i gruppen. Synes du stadigvæk at det skal nævnes en gang mere?

Reviewer: Næh, men det skal skrives mere klart så, for lige nu virker det som om at vi skylder skylden på at vi allerede er experts og ikke har lyst til at hive andre ind

> If we could conduct a usability test it would have been structured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> We would only have tested our part of the system, which means that we would not have made them setup Pozyx.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Had a usability test been conducted, it would have been focused on the usage of the system as a player, meaning that a group member would have been in charge of setting up the Pozyx system and running the host computer.
```

> The reason for this is that current knowledge about Pozyx is required to set up the game, which we do not expect our testers to have.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reason for this is that extensive knowledge about Pozyx is required to set up the game correctly, and that the host program has not been optimized for usability.
Neither of which are things that test subjects would be expected to be able to do.
```

> The test was largely unstructured, and was to an extend conducted as a big bang test.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The test was largely unstructured, and was to an extent conducted as a big bang test.
```

> Instead we would have given them a short introduction about the game and see if they could figure out starting up the game for themselves through the host, and connecting to it with their smart-phones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, they would have been given a short introduction about the game and see if they could understand and play the game, where the group would be present as observers.
```

> Ideally, this test would have been conducted as a usability test, but as the group already have expert knowledge on how to operate the program, it is not possible to test the setup and the usability of the game.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ideally, this test would have been conducted as a usability test, but as the group already had expert knowledge on how to operate the program, it is not possible to test the setup and the usability of the game.
```

> Hereafter observe them playing the game to find possible issues with the game.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> At the end of the usability test an interview would be conducted to get them to elaborate on their experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, at the end of the usability test, an interview would be conducted to get them to elaborate on their experience, with a special focus on how to make it more user friendly.
```

> Further work into preparations of a usability test has not been completed, as we since Sprint 3 have had the knowledge, that it would not be an option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Further work into preparations of a usability test has not been made, as it was deemed impossible to properly conduct the test due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
```

> Instead, they would have been given a short introduction about the game and see if they could understand and play the game, where the group would be present as observers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead, they would have been given a short introduction about the game to see if they could understand and play the game, and the group would be present as observers.
```

> Further work into preparations of a usability test has not been made, as it was deemed impossible to properly conduct the test due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Further work into the preparation of a usability test has not been made, as it was deemed impossible to properly conduct the test due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
```

\noindent
These anchors were connected to laptops or power banks to ensure no components would run out of power during play.
The game worked fine overall during the outside test, but the testers experienced that the tags sometimes stopped updating for several seconds.

> We were able to detect on the host, that it at some points did not send any positions to the host, so we expect that it was a problem with the pozyx.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Looking at the debug information available on the host laptop, it was easily seen that it periodically did not send any new positions to the clients, pointing towards a problem with the Pozyx hardware.
```
